The goal reports allow you to track and
evaluate the main overall conversions you're trying to achieve.
Achieving a purchase can be a goal,
however goal reports do not give you
the detail behind the types of products that were purchased,
how many products were part of a transaction, et cetera.
That's where the e-commerce reports come in.
They allow you to get all the detail behind the shopping behavior on your site.
Before you can use the e-commerce reports on your site,
there are two things you need to do.
First, you need to enable e-commerce in your Google Analytics reports,
and second you need to add specific code to your site or app to collect e-commerce data.
You can choose to add e-commerce or
enhanced e-commerce tracking which will provide you more in-depth information.
You can find the link below in the notes in the classroom.
Here you see the e-commerce overview report for the Google merchandise store.
In this case, the enhanced e-commerce tracking and reporting is in use.
The main metrics reported here are revenue,
the total revenue from e-commerce transactions on your site or app.
This can include the shipping rate and tax,
depending on how you've set it up.
There's also the e-commerce conversion rate,
which is the percent of sessions that resulted in an e-commerce transaction.
There's the total number of transactions and the average order value.
A part of this report provides information on
the marketing activity and the number of transactions,
and revenue that activity resulted in.
This information relates to campaigns,
for example AdWords or display campaigns that are running,
internal promotions you may be running,
coupon codes you may have used or affiliate partners you may be working with.
In order to track this marketing information,
all the marketing activity needs to be tagged properly.
We mentioned this before,
if you want to see this information in Google Analytics,
you have to provide Google Analytics with
the information that allows it to track incoming traffic,
and to classify it as traffic coming in from these marketing activities.
You do this using UTM codes,
you can find more information about those in the classroom notes.
This report also has more information about the products you're selling on your site.